# Bashscript
Bashscripts program (Devops)

Program 1: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Write a bash script using Vim editor that installs the latest java version and checks whether java was installed successfully by executing a java -version command.

After installation command, it checks 3 conditions:

1. whether java is installed at all
2. whether an older Java version is installed (java version lower than 11)
3. whether a java version of 11 or higher was installed
It prints relevant informative messages for all 3 conditions. Installation was successful if the 3rd condition is met and you have Java version 11 or higher available.

# Logic :
Breakdown of command that gets java version:


* java -version gives you the complete version output.

* 2>&1 >/dev/null addition takes any output including any errors generated by the java -version command and discards it, not showing it on the command-line and silently forwarding it using | (pipe) to the next command, which is grep "java version\|openjdk version"


* grep "java version\|openjdk version" simply finds a line in the output that has "java version" or "openjdk version" in it. The example line will look like this: openjdk version "11.0.16" 2022-07-19

* awk '{print substr($3,2,2)} takes the line from the previous output and grabs the third section of the string "11.0.16" and from there grabs the first 2 characters, which will be "11"

Explanation of if else script:

* In the if else checks, we check if the $java_version variable has no value at all or empty value, it means we have no java installation at all
* If you have an older version of java already installed, like 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, then the value of javaversionwillbe"1."−first2characters.Sowith"java_version will be "1." - first 2 characters. So with "javav​ersionwillbe"1."−first2characters.Sowith"java_version" == "1.", we check whether java_version variable is "1.". This means installing latest java version was not successful, since you still have only the old version.
* In case of success you should get java version which is 11 or higher ($java_version -ge 11), which will print success message.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
